[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm Robert Grant.
And this is the "Code X."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What is the philosopher's
stone of alchemy?
For centuries, the
philosopher's stone,
which according to legend
and myth can work wonders,
was sought after by
ancient alchemists.
Hundreds of works
have been written,
but it still remains
unclear to so many,
what exactly is the
philosopher's stone?
In their writings,
the alchemists
used a multitude of allegories,
metaphors, and symbols
that only the initiated
could correctly decode.
Using its power, people
can become creators,
such as Jesus Christ, the
legendary Count of St. Germain,
and the world-famous Helena
Blavatsky, who could literally
materialize objects
out of thin air
or transform one
thing into another.
The secret of all
of these abilities
lies within our
hearts, where there
is a crystal that represents
the crystallized fiery
energy accumulated through the
ages and through our lifetimes.
In Tibet, these stones
are called the ringsel.
When a high Lama
dies, he is cremated.
And then his closest
disciples begin
to look for the
ringsel stones, which
is the only thing that
remains of his pile of ashes
after his cremation.
In Bhutan, Buddhists
believe that the presence
of ringsel stones proves
the teacher achieved
spiritual purity and that
those who view the ringsel
can actually themselves be
spiritually transformed.
Ringsel often come from past
Buddhas and bodhisattvas
of the 10th level.
If one has strong faith and
devotion, thousands of relics
often manifest from just one.
It is essential to keep it in
a very pure and a clean place
and cared for very well.
Prayers and offerings are very
often done in their presence.
These relics could be considered
being a precipitation of bliss
arising from the central nervous
system of highly realized
masters and the activity
of bodhisattvas.
Is there anywhere else that
we can find a reference
to this ringsel
stone and crystal
phenomenon of a
crystal that grows
within the heart of an
initiated, pure teacher who's
actually learned to combine
the heart-brain consciousness
successfully?
Well, it turns
out that there is.
Let's go back for a moment
to the Salvator Mundi
by Leonardo da Vinci.
If we look closely at
the Salvator Mundi,
there is an aspect of
it that we have not yet
touched upon that is quite
enigmatic in and of itself.
What is that large amber-colored
stone immediately at the center
of the letter x?
We already know it was telling
us the exact arris angle
edge of the Great Pyramid.
The center of the x,
or as it's pronounced
in Greek, the Chi, as in
Alpha Chi Omega, at its center
sits a large stone.
The amber color is very telling.
Is this representative
of a large amber ringsel?
I believe that it is.
If we also look at
the x, we'll notice
that the numbers
eight, eight, eight
show up in multiple
locations in the embroidery.
And what is the meaning
of eight, eight, eight?
8 times 3 or 8 plus
8 plus 8 equals 24,
bringing back Divinity
onto this Earth.
The notion of Christ
consciousness relating back
to the number 24 as separated
as an equilateral triangle
is exactly what we're being
told here by Leonardo da Vinci.
Eight is also a
reference to light.
The number eight
in particle physics
is represented by the photon--
light, light, light.
When we achieve this stage
of Christ consciousness,
our entire life experience
will be transformed.
And in the process
we ourselves will
start to grow our
own ringsel stone
in the center of our hearts.
This is where the
old terminology
is from of weighing the heart.
The heart is something that
is above and beyond the logos.
The pathos is able to bring
us closer to our own divinity
and realization of who
we are and who we always
have been, but allowed
ourselves to forget
as we have gotten into the world
of day in and day out duality.
As we finally learn to transcend
this stage of our existence,
a new world awaits us.
This is what Leonardo is trying
to tell us, as the Salvator
Mundi is motioning the Alpha
Chi Omega, the Chi being
the cross that connects
heaven to Earth.
The triangle,
circle, and square--
in these three very
simple geometric forms,
we can find the answers to all
things, the square representing
the masculine, the circle
representing the feminine,
and the triangle
representing the divine.
As we understand that life
is not what we had thought
it always was, but rather
could be so much more,
that we ourselves through
this process become
as a result philosophers,
lovers of wisdom,
perceiving our world around us
very differently than we ever
have in the past, and waking
up to our own destiny that
was always there and
by our own choosing.
We have learned that the
philosopher's stone is not
simply this notion of
changing lead into gold,
but rather changing
the lead of a lower
form of our own consciousness
into the gold of the pure heart
that is achieved and culminated
in the formation of the crystal
that grows within that heart.
This is a rare
invitation for each of us
at this very early stage to
embrace the notion and concept
of the magnum opus, by
integrating a heart brain
philosophy into our lives.
>> While Robert Grant believes
the alchemical path to be
a vital path which accelerates
the spiritual evolution
of humanity, Robert also sees
the act of physically creating
geometric forms as another
vital tool for expanding
your consciousness.
>> If you go through history
and notice that one of the great
aspects of hermeticism is
the notion of the simplicity
relational to the
compass and the square.
Somehow drawing geometry seems
to open our minds in new ways
that we didn't consider prior
to us commencing that effort.
It's as if we
ourselves are sitting
in the role of the architect,
architecting and consciously
delivering on the
ideas and concepts
to create the reality around
us that we now experience.
Somehow when we tap
into that space,
it's not dissimilar
from meditation.
One of the things that
has also come out of this
is that in drawing
Metatron's cube,
I was able to
discover more than 30
entirely new geometric
forms that I now
call collectively the
granthahedron family of solids.
These solids are very
interesting because they've not
been seen before.
You will not find them inside
of mathematical different forms
of geometry that
are either called
Catalan solids or
Platonic solids
or Archimedean solids
or duals of any
of those solid structures.
These are entirely
new geometric forms
that have a unique simplicity
in that in particular, I
saw them amidst a complex
structure of lines.
As I work through these
lines, every time I do it,
somehow my perspective shifts
on the world around me.
It almost forces me as
I'm drawing geometry
in a more and more
three-dimensional form
or in a fashion that would look
as if it's actually in motion.
This is a very specific
form of geometric drawing.
During the Renaissance,
this accompanied
the actual Renaissance
itself, as Leonardo da Vinci
in particular and several
others during the time
started to use depth of
perception and perspective
drawing in ways that had
never been used before,
moving their artistic world away
from a flat, Euclidean plane
to three-dimensional
and seemingly
four-dimensional in
motion geometric forms.
Some of the more famous
examples of this you
can see by Leonardo.
But also you can
see some of them
in the famous paintings that
have been performed and done
where we'll see both Plato
and Pythagoras walking down
large vistas and hallways
that seem to go on
as far as the eye can
see, lending perspective
and depth to a painting that
otherwise would be absolutely
flat and motionless.
Is it possible that
as we expand our minds
and start to create
new synaptic junctions
and connect different
parts of our brain
that somehow it
will have an even
more profound effect on how
we perceive reality itself?
Some believe that as we move
through higher dimensions
that everything that is
possible in higher dimensions
is actually around us today.
It's simply that we are
unable to perceive it.
I believe that drawing
by hand geometry
changes dramatically
your ability
to perceive higher dimensions.
It is precisely the training
that our brain radio requires
to be able that unlock the
power of the pineal gland
and the pituitary glands
to enlighten and awaken
fully the third eye
and the crown chakras.
This is what
fundamentally changes
how you perceive the
world and your ability
to answer very complex problems
with simplistic, relatable,
and consistent, and
most importantly,
very, very
understandable answers.
In the process of
drawing geometry,
I took on one of the great
challenges that, of course,
Leonardo da Vinci also took on
in leaving us the illustration
of the Vitruvian Man.
The Vitruvian Man
as an illustration
puts forward this notion
that had already been around
for several thousand years
of the importance of squaring
the circle.
The challenge from ancient
times until now has always been,
how do you square a circle to
be able to draw what is referred
to as unconstructed
numbers because
of their transcendent
irrationality?
And without measurement,
it's simply an impossibility.
It is possible to be
able to square a circle
and match the areas of
the square and the circle
using computer technology.
That's obvious.
But doing so without the aid
of any measurement whatsoever
and to do so in
drawing it by hand?
Now that is a different
challenge altogether,
and the subject of the challenge
that has been put forward
since the time of ancient Greek
mathematicians and philosophers
took it on.
It was believed from
that time until now
that somehow if we'd be able to
tackle this task that we would
be able to achieve a higher
level of understanding
and awareness and
enlightenment to finally
bring into balance the
energies of the masculine
and the feminine
together into one.
In cracking the code that
was left to us by Leonardo da
Vinci, it also
gave us a blueprint
for how to square the circle
correctly three different ways,
simply following a cipher
key that Leonardo left us
in his square having
an area value compared
to the circle that had
an area value of pi.
That relationship was
simply Euler over pi.
The form of squaring
the circle that he
left us may not have been
the correct form that
mathematicians in the day or
for thousands of years would say
is actually the correct form.
I believe it is undoubtedly
one of the correct forms,
as we measure scalar waves
that are compressioned,
longitudinal waves of sound,
versus the measurement
of transverse waves
of light, which
are spiraling all around us
every single day of our lives.
When we understand the nature
and relationship of scalar
versus transverse, we note that
the commanding and governing
bodies and mathematical
constants that
create these associations in the
first place require adjustment.
That adjustment is
found within the ratio
of Euler divided by pi.
This irrevocably
comes back to a number
that we all associate
very closely
with that relates to
light, for Euler divided
by pi divided by 2
gives us the square root
of the speed of light, bringing
us back again to approximately
432.
432 is a very interesting
number that we find originally
in the form of the tetractys
left to us by Pythagoras
himself, four different
lines of a pyramid.
It starts with four positional
points, goes to three,
then goes to two, then
goes to one, 4, 3, 2, 1.
I mentioned that
eight, eight, eight
is representative of light,
light, light and Christ
consciousness in particular.
8 plus 8 plus 8 equals 24.
Very interestingly, 4 times 3
times 2 times 1 also equals 24.
And now we find ourselves
irrevocably back,
looking at and observing
the 24-hour clock that
is the prime number pattern and
the repetition of all Fibonacci
numbers infinitely.
24 brings with it a certain
degree of access to the divine.
24 and its reciprocal value,
42, are very special numbers
indeed.
1 over 24 rounds to 42.
And also we also note that it
is not only its reciprocal,
but it's also its palindrome.
Palindrome is a fancy
name in mathematics
for describing a number that
when we invert or reverse
the number has the same digits.
And so we know that there's some
form of a relationship there.
24 backwards would be 42.
So there must be some
universal form that's important
when constructing the world and
constructing the universe that
says that a number whose inverse
value reciprocal inverse value
is equivalent to its palindrome
has very unique mirroring
characteristics.
This is one of the reasons
why 24 is so special.
Another reason we
know 24 is so special
is because the square root
of 10, which is 3.16227766,
divided by 10, now taking
that number to 0.316227766,
and then adding 1 to that
value, now 1.316227766,
raised to the exponential
power of 1 over 0.24
is a very, very
close approximation,
much closer than even 22
over 7, for the value of pi.
But how can we take this
knowledge and apply it to art?
How can we take the golden
number and golden ratio
and golden angle and apply
it to artistic expression?
All of my work over
the past many years
now has been a direct result
of this convergence of science
and art into one form,
no longer separated
between these different,
disparate disciplines,
but rather convergent
and beautiful
because of its convergence,
not despite its convergence.
As we look at
squaring the circle
and how to actually do this
and draw it out by hand,
we must look at the Euler area
value of the da Vinci square.
Now, you'll notice that
the da Vinci square barely
crests the lines of the circle
that intersect the square.
This is a unique
characteristic and one
that has been the
subject of some ridicule
from the mathematics community
for several hundred years
now, because what da
Vinci did was nowhere
close to a true squaring of the
circle without the knowledge
that the scalar value
is the equivalent value
to compare against a
transverse value of light.
Effectively, we're looking
at darkness versus light.
Another aspect of this
that we can look at,
though, is that maybe we can
use the da Vinci square in order
to solve this
age-old riddle of how
to draw by hand
without any measurement
whatsoever a perfect
squaring of the circle,
and not only do so to perfectly
square the circle in area,
but has da Vinci
given us the ability
now through his cipher key
and 500-year-old plus drawing
the ability also to
square the perimeter so
that it is equivalent
to the circumference
of the same circle?
Three ways to
square the circle--
the da Vinci method, the
area squaring method,
and the perimeter
circumference squaring method.
Could it be that
they're all hidden
within the simplistic and
elegant form of da Vinci
square, the Euler value versus
the pi value of the circle?
Leonardo was famous for
saying that simplicity
is the ultimate sophistication.
I believe he has 100%
embodied that core principle
in his masterpiece
work, the Vitruvian Man.
I encourage you to try
drawing it for yourself.
There's something, again,
that is very powerful
that relates to consciousness
and our own meditation
and conscious awareness when we
take the effort to draw using
only a compass and a square.
Art is something that emerges
from the heart, the heart
center.
Science is something that
connects the dots for us
in our logical mind.
As we draw geometry, we
learn and we teach our mind
how to contextualize and bring
perspective, new ways of seeing
the world to our consciousness.
I believe that fundamentally
changes our ability
to perceive higher dimensions.
And pattern recognition becomes
a fundamental way for us
to be able to look at our own
level of conscious progression.
This is not learning nameless,
faceless mathematics.
I'm talking about making an
expression from the heart.
As you make that
expression from the heart,
that effort starts to
meld with the mind,
again, bringing together
logos and pathos into one.
This will change how
you perceive the world.
And by taking the effort
even to hand draw out
the geometry of squaring
the circle, given
to us as a gift from
Leonardo da Vinci himself
over 500 years ago,
I fundamentally
believe we will
start to embody what
it means to be
the change that we
would like to see in the world.
I'm Robert Grant and
this is the "Code X."